if anyone is found slain lying in the
if anyone is found slain lying in the field in the land which the Lord your
field in the land which the Lord your
field in the land which the Lord your God is giving you to possess and it is
God is giving you to possess and it is
God is giving you to possess and it is not known who killed him in your elders
not known who killed him in your elders
not known who killed him in your elders and your judges shall go out and measure
and your judges shall go out and measure
and your judges shall go out and measure the distance from the slain man to the
the distance from the slain man to the
the distance from the slain man to the surrounding cities and it shall be that
surrounding cities and it shall be that
surrounding cities and it shall be that the elders of the city nearest to the
the elders of the city nearest to the
the elders of the city nearest to the slain man will take a heifer which has
slain man will take a heifer which has
slain man will take a heifer which has not been worked and which has not pulled
not been worked and which has not pulled
not been worked and which has not pulled with the yoke the elders of that city
with the yoke the elders of that city
with the yoke the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley
shall bring the heifer down to a valley
shall bring the heifer down to a valley with flowing water which is neither
with flowing water which is neither
with flowing water which is neither plowed North Zone and they shall break
plowed North Zone and they shall break
plowed North Zone and they shall break the heifers net there in the valley then
the heifers net there in the valley then
the heifers net there in the valley then the priests the sons of Levi shall come
the priests the sons of Levi shall come
the priests the sons of Levi shall come near for the Lord your God has chosen
near for the Lord your God has chosen
near for the Lord your God has chosen them to minister to him and to bless in
them to minister to him and to bless in
them to minister to him and to bless in the name of the Lord by their word every
the name of the Lord by their word every
the name of the Lord by their word every controversy in every assault shall be
controversy in every assault shall be
controversy in every assault shall be settled
and all the elders of that city nearest
and all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands
to the slain man shall wash their hands
to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in
over the heifer whose neck was broken in
over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley then they shall answer and
the valley then they shall answer and
the valley then they shall answer and say our hands have not shed this blood
say our hands have not shed this blood
say our hands have not shed this blood nor have our eyes seen it provide
nor have our eyes seen it provide
nor have our eyes seen it provide atonement O Lord for your people Israel
atonement O Lord for your people Israel
atonement O Lord for your people Israel whom you have redeemed and do not lay
whom you have redeemed and do not lay
whom you have redeemed and do not lay innocent blood for the charge of your
innocent blood for the charge of your
innocent blood for the charge of your people Israel
people Israel
people Israel and atonement shall be provided on their
and atonement shall be provided on their
and atonement shall be provided on their behalf for the blood so you shall put
behalf for the blood so you shall put
behalf for the blood so you shall put away the guilt of innocent blood from
away the guilt of innocent blood from
away the guilt of innocent blood from among you when you do what is right in
among you when you do what is right in
among you when you do what is right in the sight of the Lord
when you go out to war against your
when you go out to war against your enemies and the Lord your God delivers
enemies and the Lord your God delivers
enemies and the Lord your God delivers them into your hand and you take them
them into your hand and you take them
them into your hand and you take them captive and you see among the captives a
captive and you see among the captives a
captive and you see among the captives a beautiful woman and desire her and would
beautiful woman and desire her and would
beautiful woman and desire her and would take her for your wife then you shall
take her for your wife then you shall
take her for your wife then you shall bring her home to your house and she
bring her home to your house and she
bring her home to your house and she shall shave her head and trim her nails
shall shave her head and trim her nails
shall shave her head and trim her nails she shall put off the clothes of her
she shall put off the clothes of her
she shall put off the clothes of her captivity remain in your house and mourn
captivity remain in your house and mourn
captivity remain in your house and mourn her father and her mother a full month
her father and her mother a full month
her father and her mother a full month after that you may go into her and be
after that you may go into her and be
after that you may go into her and be her husband and she shall be your wife
her husband and she shall be your wife
her husband and she shall be your wife and it shall be if you have no delight
and it shall be if you have no delight
and it shall be if you have no delight in her then you shall set her free but
in her then you shall set her free but
in her then you shall set her free but you certainly shall not sell her for
you certainly shall not sell her for
you certainly shall not sell her for money
money
money you shall not treat her brutally because
you shall not treat her brutally because
you shall not treat her brutally because you have humbled her if a man has two
you have humbled her if a man has two
you have humbled her if a man has two wives one loved and the other unloved
wives one loved and the other unloved
wives one loved and the other unloved and they have borne him children both
and they have borne him children both
and they have borne him children both the loved and the unloved and if the
the loved and the unloved and if the
the loved and the unloved and if the firstborn son is of her who is unloved
firstborn son is of her who is unloved
firstborn son is of her who is unloved then it shall be on the day he
then it shall be on the day he
then it shall be on the day he bequeathed his possessions to his sons
bequeathed his possessions to his sons
bequeathed his possessions to his sons that he must not bestow first
that he must not bestow first
that he must not bestow first born status on the son of the loved wife
born status on the son of the loved wife
born status on the son of the loved wife in preference to the son of the unloved
in preference to the son of the unloved
in preference to the son of the unloved the true firstborn but he shall
the true firstborn but he shall
the true firstborn but he shall acknowledge the son of the unloved wife
acknowledge the son of the unloved wife
acknowledge the son of the unloved wife as the firstborn by giving him a double
as the firstborn by giving him a double
as the firstborn by giving him a double portion of all that he has or he is the
portion of all that he has or he is the
portion of all that he has or he is the beginning of his strength the right of
beginning of his strength the right of
beginning of his strength the right of the firstborn is his if a man has a
the firstborn is his if a man has a
the firstborn is his if a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not
stubborn and rebellious son who will not
stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the
obey the voice of his father or the
obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother and who when they
voice of his mother and who when they
voice of his mother and who when they have chastened him will not heed them
have chastened him will not heed them
have chastened him will not heed them then his father and his mother shall
then his father and his mother shall
then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to
take hold of him and bring him out to
take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his City to the gate of
the elders of his City to the gate of
the elders of his City to the gate of his City and they shall say to the
his City and they shall say to the
his City and they shall say to the elders of his City this son of ours is
elders of his City this son of ours is
elders of his City this son of ours is stubborn and rebellious he will not obey
stubborn and rebellious he will not obey
stubborn and rebellious he will not obey our voice he is a glutton and a drunkard
our voice he is a glutton and a drunkard
our voice he is a glutton and a drunkard then all the men of his City shall stone
then all the men of his City shall stone
then all the men of his City shall stone him to death with stones so you shall
him to death with stones so you shall
him to death with stones so you shall put away the evil from among you and all
put away the evil from among you and all
put away the evil from among you and all Israel shall hear and fear if a man has
Israel shall hear and fear if a man has
Israel shall hear and fear if a man has committed a sin deserving of death and
committed a sin deserving of death and
committed a sin deserving of death and he is put to death and you hang him
he is put to death and you hang him
he is put to death and you hang him on a tree his body shall not remain
on a tree his body shall not remain
on a tree his body shall not remain overnight on the tree but you shall
overnight on the tree but you shall
overnight on the tree but you shall surely bury him that day so that you do
surely bury him that day so that you do
surely bury him that day so that you do not defile the land which the Lord your
not defile the land which the Lord your
not defile the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance for
God is giving you as an inheritance for
God is giving you as an inheritance for he who is hanged is a cursed of God